## Automated Echocardiogram Quantification and Disease Classification Using 2D Echocardiography in a Combined Cohorts

Automated cardiac image quantification has been changing the practice of medicine in multiple ways, not only by expediting research and clinical workflow but also extending cardiac assessment by nonexperts to primary care and rural settings. Echocardiography is a non-invasive, low cost, reproducible, accurate, and most commonly used imaging modality that employs sound waves to assess heart structure and function. Several studies have demonstrated the feasibility of deep learning methods to automate different tasks in the echocardiographic analysis process. However, few have built a pipeline automating the entire imaging analysis process and none have extensively assessed or validated the reproducibility of such a pipeline in any external independent cohort, let alone in a cohort of people living with HIV. The purpose of this study is to build, calibrate, and evaluate the performance of an automated 2D and speckle tracking echocardiogram quantification pipeline in the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) Study, MACS, and WIHS cohorts.  We hypothesize that successful development and validation of the automated pipeline proposed here will enhance the performance of the repeat MWCCS (MACS-WHIS Combined Chort Study) echo studies slated to occur in 2022-2024. The challenge of the repeat study protocol is harmonizing measurements that will be acquired using multiple ultrasound systems and technologists along with the need for comparison to historic echo metrics obtained several years earlier. We anticipate that automation will improve repeatability of, decrease variability in, and increase accuracy of the echo measurements to better ensure scientific rigor of the serial echo studies as well as decrease the human burden of manual analyses.  
